= Babel

* http://github.com/thyresias/rdoc-babel

== Description

Babel is an RDoc formatter producing HTML documentation.
The default template is +ruby-lang+.

You are welcome to propose changes or enhancements,
and to contribute alternate templates or style sheets.

=== Features of the "ruby-lang" template

- Look and feel inspired from ruby-lang.org[https://www.ruby-lang.org/] (in 2010).
- Dual-frame output, with indexes on the left.
- Search boxes for classes and methods.
- Links to undocumented classes/methods are grayed.
- Highlights the current file/class/method in the left frame.
- Highlights the target method, attribute or constant in the main frame.
- Adds links to ancestor methods/attributes.
- Borrows some ideas (and one icon) from Darkfish.
- Tested on Firefox 125.<br>
  If using the <tt>file://</tt> protocol, the "same origin policy" for local files must be turned off:<br>
  <tt>about:config</tt> > <tt>security.fileuri.strict_origin_policy = false</tt>

== Synopsis

To output documentation formatted by Babel, use the <tt>--format/-f</tt>
RDoc switch. For instance, to generate the documentation for Ruby core and stdlib:

  > gem install rdoc-babel
  > cd /ruby/src
  > rdoc -f babel -a -t "Ruby Core + Stdlib" -o /docs/ruby-core

Using rake:

  require 'rdoc/task'

  RDoc::Task.new do |t|
    Dir.chdir '/ruby/src'
    rdoc.options <<
      '--format' << 'babel' <<
      '--all'
    t.title = "Ruby Core + Stdlib"
    t.rdoc_dir = '/docs/ruby-core'
  end

To make Babel the default format when generating RDoc documentation,
define the RDOCOPT environment variable:

  RDOCOPT="--format babel"

== Specific options

Babel supports specific options in addition to the standard RDoc options:

[<tt>--style</tt> _url_, +-s+]

  Specifies the URL of a stylesheet that the template should use.
  The default is "rdoc.css".

[<tt>--see-standard-ancestors</tt>]

  Add links to Kernel/Object ancestor methods.

  When a method or attribute is defined in a class/module, and is also
  present in an ancestor, Babel adds a link to the ancestor method/attribute
  in the description ("See also ..."). Unless this option is specified,
  this annotation is not generated for Object and Kernel ancestor methods.

== Requirements

- Ruby >= 3.1.0 (may work with >= 2.5.0, but untested)
- RDoc >= 6.5.0 (may work with >= 5.0, but untested)

== Installation

  [sudo] gem install rdoc-babel

== License

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2010-2024 Thierry Lambert

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
